# assignment-9-kawilliams
<<<<<<< HEAD
# ha1-kawilliams
=======
Katy Williams
CSC 544
Assignment 9

  Since my final project deals with trace data from supercomputers, I did not consider it “evil” enough to evaluate for this assignment. Instead, I found a paper from IEEE Vis 2015 to evaluate: “3D Regression Heat Map Analysis of Population Study Data” by Klemm et al. 

  Klemm et al analyzed epidemiological data sets using an exhaustive regression-based analysis. Epidemiological data is heterogeneous data about a subject group (a cohort) that is used to identify disease-specific risk factors. Information about the subject’s daily life, medical status, and medical image data are all encoded as features within this data set. Using statistical regression analysis, we can evaluate these features and identify a combination of features that indicate the target feature, the disease. This type of analysis is important because it allows scientists to characterize disease-specific high-risk groups and to recommend specific lifestyle changes to attempt to prevent a disease. Klemm et al. developed a new way to provide interactive, regression-based analysis via their 3D Regression Heat Map method.
The primary goal of the 3D Regression Heat Map is to support hypothesis generation through an overview visualization. The authors provide a way for domain experts to explore associates with respect to various target features, allowing for checks of data soundness and for detecting unexpected relationships. Using the correlation-based feature selection (CFS) algorithm to reduce the feature space, the authors use the feature subset to build regression heat maps of features, with the color saturation corresponding to the R2 metric. These 2D maps are stitched together to create a 3D visualization to show an overview of the whole dataset. The overview lets the viewer quickly spot large regression metric values, steering attention to that specific 2D slice. The viewer can zoom, filter, and analyze further on the 2D slice, with details-on-demand about the regression available at that level.

  Since this visualization was created to handle health data, which is highly sensitive data, displaying this data can naturally become “evil”. The application is web-based for ease of use, which offers security issues that the authors address in section 5 of the paper. However even if the data is anonymized and secured, it is still possible to use an evil data set. For example, if the data set of health records has a low number of subjects but has a relatively large number of features, it may be possible for someone to identify the people in the dataset (a male child with no arms who is treated at Hospital X in Smalltownville might be sufficiently described in the dataset for him to be named). Displaying this data and finding various correlations between features may cause various cohorts or even companies to feel attacked. As an example, if the visualization shows a correlation between consumption of fast food and breast cancer, McDonald’s may sue the company running the study (or the vis team - yikes!). Likewise, giving the power of correlation to those who don’t fully understand statistics can be a dangerous thing (see the Nic Cage - drowning example). Since the authors give the user some abilities to change the regressions performed, a user may manipulate the visualization until they achieve a desired result.
  
  Ultimately, I think a visualization itself isn’t evil but becomes an “accessory” to the crime. Typically data is the perpetrator of the crime; often we are content when the data is hidden away but as soon as it becomes public, we immediately become concerned. Creating an easy-to-use regression exploration tool is doubly concerning since health data is now easily explorable and it is easy to calculate regressions on the data and back claims with “statistics.” As always, proceed carefully with the math and with regard to the sensitivity of the data. 
>>>>>>> ac181167ec3806e41a1a9a6f4ea490023852e99a
# mental-models-codes
